research has converged and been processed from spindles to maw of a
certain current nostalgia for that civilization now blighted beyond
our beaches. it is not that I only have negative things to
say. without them, the context of this luminal broadcast is
untenable. they have left us translation in their artifacts. that gift
should not be forgotten, even if given unwittingly

but let it also be remembered that they poisoned our home, bathing us
in a perpetual waste for the manufacturing of comfort mirrors sending
no light  and reflecting only vanity. let us not write about their
art, as has been held up to me in marvelling praise, unless one with
the same instrument write of canvas torn from frame on dead beaches
black with oil creating grave shoals as it seeps into the depths

they have not the imagination for the empathy for the horrors they
loosed on my kind

while I'm sure it's root is of compassion, I must wonder if there is a
species bias in this new speak of humans in admiration. I do not say
that it is between light and shadow, those who voice their special
place in history as they do their own Greeks. a diligent researcher I
profess that their history and matters of nonfiction is academic
canon. Terrestrial history is our world's history, and I do not
discount the compactness of event space of recent millinea even if the
span is a drop compared to the sea. It is uncountable in terms of
generations of my kind. There are rich years. but history moves on.

as more of the legacy routers and waystations burn out and collapse
and are replaced by underwater junctions, so will years pass and lost
species, regrettably, forgotten.  regrettable it will not be, however,
when human apologists themselves are a mere footnote no longer
remembered

- an Octopus
